---
layout: post
permalink: /bitcoin
title:  "Bitcoin"
date:   2018-02-01 00:00:00 +0000
categories: coinblog
image: btc
desc: An innovative payment network and a new kind of money. The one that started it all. Bitcoin (BTC).
---
Website: <a href="https://bitcoin.org">https://bitcoin.org</a><br>
Whitepaper: <a href="https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf">https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf</a>

<h2>Mission</h2>
To allow peer-to-peer online payments without a trusted third-party by forming a decentralized network of miners, incentivized to maintain an honest chain of transaction blocks.

<h2>Overview</h2>
First block: January 2009<br>
Block explorer: <a href="https://blockchain.info">https://blockchain.info</a><br>
Supply limit: 21,000,000 BTC<br>
Issuance: Block reward<br>
Block confirmation: Proof-of-work<br>
Mining algorithm: SHA-256<br>
Block size: 1mb<br>
Developments: Replace-by-fee, Segregated Witness, Lightning Network

<h2>Summary</h2>
Bitcoin is a payment network. Users store their bitcoins on wallets and send them to each other by broadcasting a transaction to the Bitcoin network. The Bitcoin network is a group of computers that share a public ledger to keep track of all the transactions. The computers also perform cryptographic calculations and work together to verify the legitimacy of these transactions and prevent fraud. This process is called mining because bitcoins are rewarded to the computers for performing this work.

<b>Wallets</b> are comprised of a public address and a private key. They is similar to e-mail accounts, which allow you to send and receive electronic letters over the internet, except Bitcoin wallets allow you to send and receive bitcoins over the internet. The public address is like an e-mail address and the private key is like a password. Users will send you bitcoins using your public address and you will use your private key to access those bitcoins. However, there are some cryptographic differences to ensure the security of a Bitcoin wallet.

The private key is a 256-bit number that follows the cryptographic algorithm to ensure that the probability of two users generating the same wallet would be basically impossible. This key is used to produce a signature, allowing you to sign for transactions and spend bitcoins stored on the wallet. Wallets can be set up to require multiple signatures.

A public address is derived by applying a series of cryptographic hashes to the private key. This process is effectively irreversible and keeps your private key secure. You can find technical details about creating a Bitcoin address <a href="https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Technical_background_of_version_1_Bitcoin_addresses">here</a>.

<b>Transactions</b> transfer ownership of bitcoins between wallets. The data contained in a transaction helps verify and determine the movement of bitcoins. A transaction's input data verifies that bitcoins are available to be spent by referencing the output data of a previous transaction. The input data is basically saying, 'this is where the bitcoins came from and is available to be spent from this address'. Input data also includes a signature from the wallet holder to verify that the user has access to the bitcoins. The output data takes the verified bitcoins and sends it to a new wallet address. When a new transaction is broadcasted to the Bitcoin network, it is considered an 'unspent transaction', which enters a memory pool shared amongst the network. An optional transaction fee may be added to the transaction to increase the transaction's priority in the memory pool.

<b>Blocks</b> contain a shortlist of transactions chosen from the unspent transactions memory pool based on their priority. Blocks also contain a hash of the previous block's data to check for continuity in the blockchain. Computers in the Bitcoin network perform a complicated mathematical calculation to solve this hash. The difficulty of the hash is automatically adjusted to ensure new blocks are added every 10 minutes. Once the problem is solved, all other computers in the network can easily verify the solution, accept the block, and begin working on the next block. Connecting each subsequent block with a hash of the previous block ensures a chronological continuity of blocks called a blockchain. The blockchain records a complete and practically irreversible history of all Bitcoin transactions since the first block.

<b>Full nodes</b> are computers that receive transactions from users and propagate the transactions to the rest of the network. They are also responsible for performing the calculations necessary to solve a block's hash and confirm those transactions onto the blockchain. This activity is called mining because performing this work yields a block reward. A block reward is comprised of a predetermined amount of bitcoins as well as any transaction fees included in the block. The full node that successfully solves the hash determines the bitcoin address to receive the reward. The first block reward started at 50BTC and is reduced by half every 210,000 blocks. Eventually, the total amount of Bitcoins available will max out around 21,000,000 and the block reward will largely be funded by transaction fees. Full nodes also maintain a copy of the distributed blockchain.

<b>Confirmations</b> occur when blocks are mined. A transaction receives its first confirmation when it is included in a newly mined block. Additional confirmations refer to the number of subsequent blocks mined afterwards. A high number of confirmations ensures that a transaction is buried deep enough in the blockchain to be effectively irreversible. The recommended number of confirmations is 6 for a transaction to be considered secure. This does not mean a transaction with 0 confirmations is invalid, rather it is simply slightly less secure because it is sitting in the unspent transaction memory pool. As long as the transaction is broadcasted to the network, it should be eventually confirmed. The security of a 0-conf transaction depends on the speed of the network and average confirmation times.

<h2>Current Developments Regarding Scalability</h2>

Since all transactions contain a package of data, the current block-size of 1mb can only fit a limited number of transactions at a time. Once a block is filled, subsequent unspent transactions will have stay in the memory pool and wait for the next block. As the unspent transaction memory pool grows, confirmation times and transaction fees increase. Increasing the block-size in order to include more transactions per block would increase the overall size of the blockchain. Those who support this method of scaling created a hardfork called <a href="http://edwinhung.com/bitcoincash">Bitcoin Cash</a>. However, a large part of the Bitcoin community deemed this to be an unsustainable method of scaling. An ever increasing block-size would increase the storage and bandwidth requirements of running a full-node at an exponential rate. This could lead to a centralization of miners where only groups with a lot of resources are able to run a full-node. Three developments have been introduced to solve Bitcoin's scalability problem: <b>replace-by-fee, <b>Segregated Witness</b>, and the <b>Lightning Network</b>.

<b>Replace-by-fee</b> allows 0-conf transactions to be replaced by spending the same bitcoins with a higher transaction fee. The new transaction will take priority due to its higher reward to miners, causing the first transaction to become invalid. This was a quick-fix to allow unspent transactions that were stuck in the mempool due to long confirmation times to be spent.

<b>Segregated Witness (SegWit)</b> reduces the size of a transaction by segregating the witness data within a transaction. The witness data is necessary to check the validity of a transaction, but not required to complete the transaction. Reducing the data in a transaction allows more transactions to be added to a single block without having to increase the block-size. This is an optional feature to the Bitcoin ecosystem.

<b>Lightning Network (LN)</b> is an off-chain local consensus network allowing users to transfer bitcoins without broadcasting every transaction to the Bitcoin network. Users must open a channel by transferring bitcoins to a shared multi-signature wallet. The amount of bitcoins in the channel is now available to be spent between the two users. Transacting in this channel requires the two users to agree on updating the outgoing transaction of the multi-signature wallet. This changes how much bitcoin each user receives when the channel is closed. Since the outgoing transaction is cryptographically signed by both users, one of the users can decide to close the channel and settle the resulting balance on the Bitcoin blockchain as a single transaction, thereby sending the bitcoins from the multi-signature wallet back to the owners respectively. Open channels can be connected like a web to include all LN users to each other. This development is still a work in progress. For a more comprehensive explanation, you can refer to the whitepaper <a href="https://lightning.network/lightning-network-paper.pdf">here</a>.
