---
layout: post
title:  "Bitcoin"
date:   2018-01-12 00:00:00 +0000
categories: coinblog
image: btc
desc: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system. The one that started it all. Bitcoin (BTC).
---
Website: <a href="https://bitcoin.org">https://bitcoin.org</a><br>
Whitepaper: <a href="https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf">https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf</a>

<h2>Mission</h2>
To allow peer-to-peer online payments without a trusted third-party by forming a decentralized network of miners, incentivized to maintain an honest chain of transaction blocks.

<h2>Overview</h2>
First block: January 2009<br>
Supply limit: 21,000,000 BTC<br>
Issuance: Block reward<br>
Block confirmation: Proof-of-work<br>
Mining algorithm: SHA-256<br>
Block size: 1mb<br>
Developments: Segregated Witness, Lightning Network

<h2>Summary</h2>
Bitcoin is an electronic cash system. Users store bitcoins in wallets, which can be sent other wallets by broadcasting a transaction to the Bitcoin network. The Bitcoin network is a group of computers that receive these transactions and put them into a block. Each computer performs mathematical calculations in order to solve the block's hash, thereby confirming the transactions within the block. This activity is called mining because when a computer solves the hash, it receives bitcoin as a reward. All other computers in the network will verify that the completed hash is correct, add the block to their copy of the blockchain, and start working on the next block. Over time, these blocks form a chain of transactions and acts as a public ledger to keep track of all bitcoins in the system. The remainder of this post will explain each of these elements in greater detail and accuracy.

<b>Wallets</b> are comprised of a public address and a private key. A private key is a 256-bit number that follows the cryptographic algorithm secp256k1. It is used to generate a signature, allowing you to sign for transactions and spend bitcoins stored on the wallet. Wallets can be generated to require multiple signatures. A public address is derived from the private key by applying a series of hashes to it. This process means the reverse (generating the private key from a public address) is practically impossible to perform. A public address is similar to an e-mail address. Other users will use your public address to send bitcoins to you.

<b>Transactions</b> transfer ownership of bitcoins between wallets. The data contained in a transaction helps verify and determine the movement of bitcoins. A transaction's input data verifies that bitcoins are available to be spent by referencing the output data of a previous transaction. The input data is basically saying, 'this is where the bitcoins came from and is available to be spent'. Input data also includes a signature from the wallet holder to verify that the user has access to these bitcoins. The output data takes the verified bitcoins and sends it to a new wallet address. When a transaction is broadcasted to the Bitcoin network, it gets added to a block.

<b>Blocks</b> contain transactions and a hash of the previous block's data. Computers in the Bitcoin network perform an extremely complicated mathematical problem to solve this hash. The difficulty of the hash is automatically adjusted to ensure new blocks are added every 10 minutes. Once the problem is solved, all other computers in the network can easily verify the solution, accept the block, and begin working on the next block. Connecting each subsequent block with a hash of the previous block ensures a chronological continuity of blocks called a blockchain. The blockchain records a complete and practically irreversible history of all Bitcoin transactions since the first block.

<b>Full nodes</b> are computers in the Bitcoin network that perform the calculations necessary to solve a block's hash and confirm transactions onto the blockchain. This activity is called mining because a reward is given to the full node for performing this work. The reward is comprised of a predetermined amount of bitcoins as well as any transaction fees included in the block. Full nodes also save a full copy of the blockchain.

<b>Segregated Witness (SegWit)</b> has been implemented to reduce the size of a transaction by segregating the witness data within a transaction. The witness data is necessary to check the validity of a transaction, but not required to complete the transaction. Reducing the data held in a transaction allows more transactions to be added to a single block without having to increase the block size. This is an optional feature to the Bitcoin ecosystem.

<b>Lightning Network (LN)</b> is an off-chain local consensus network allowing users to transfer bitcoins without broadcasting every transaction to the Bitcoin network. Users must open a channel by transferring Bitcoins into a shared multi-signature wallet. The amount of bitcoins in the channel determines how much value can be transacted. Users transact with each other by repeatedly changing the output of their multi-signature wallet. At any time, the two users can agree to close the channel and settle the resulting balance on the Bitcoin blockchain as a single transaction. Open channels can be extended like a web to connect all LN users to each other. This development is still a work in progress.