---
layout: post
permalink: /ripple
title:  "Ripple"
date:   2018-01-17 00:00:00 +0000
categories: coinblog
image: xrp
desc: A global real-time settlement network. Blockchain for the banks. Ripple (XRP).
---
Website: <a href="https://ripple.com">https://ripple.com</a><br>
Whitepaper: <a href="https://ripple.com/files/ripple_consensus_whitepaper.pdf">https://ripple.com/files/ripple_consensus_whitepaper.pdf</a>

<h2>Mission</h2>
To provide a single frictionless experience for sending money globally by connecting banks, payment providers, digital asset exchanges, and corporates via RippleNet.

<h2>Overview</h2>
Initial release: 2012<br>
Block explorer: <a href="https://xrpcharts.ripple.com/#/graph">https://xrpcharts.ripple.com/#/graph</a><br>
Supply limit: 1,000,000,000 XRP<br>
Issuance: Initial offering<br>
Block confirmation: Consensus<br>
Consensus algorithm: 80% super-majority<br>
Developments: xCurrent, xRapid, xVia

<h2>Summary</h2>
Ripple may refer to Ripple as a company, RippleNet as a network, or Ripple Transaction Protocol (RTXP) and XRP as a cryptocurrency. The company Ripple is responsible for the development of the Ripple ecosystem. This includes forging partnerships and helping institutions integrate into RippleNet. RippleNet is a network of institutions that use Ripple's products to perform cross-border transactions in real-time. XRP is the native cryptocurrency of the RTXP, and can act as an intermediary asset for institutions participating in RippleNet. The majority of XRP tokens created are held by Ripple and its creators for this purpose.

<h2>RippleNet Product Suite</h2>

The RippleNet Product Suite is comprised of xCurrent, xRapid, and xVia. They are products that Ripple offers institutions to help facilitate cross-border payments in real-time. They are not part of the cryptocurrency XRP. However, Ripple intends to use XRP to improve the utility and effectiveness of the RippleNet Product Suite.

<b>xCurrent</b> is a real-time gross settlement system that integrates with an institution's existing infrastructure. It accomplishes this by employing three components: Messenger, Validator, and ILP Ledger. Messenger is a two-way messaging system with an API that translates and standardizes the format of payment messages from these institutions, including information such as amounts, accounts, fees, FX rates, and other payment details. Both institutions may use Validator to confirm the payment cryptographically and update the debits and credits onto xCurrent's subledgers, which correspond to each institution's general ledger. This interaction between separate ledgers is called the 'Interledger Protocol (ILP)' and allows transactions to be settled between institutions instantly. You can read Ripple's official xCurrent overview <a href="https://ripple.com/files/ripple_product_overview.pdf">here<a/>.

<b>xRapid</b> is for payment providers to increase liquidity by utilizing XRP tokens. This is currently under development.

<b>xVia</b> is for corporates, payment providers, and banks to send payments across RippleNet. This is currently under development.

<h2>Ripple Transaction Protocol (RTXP) and XRP</h2>

The Ripple Transaction Protocol and XRP are independent of the RippleNet Product Suite. XRP is a cryptocurrency and an asset that can be used to provide liquidity to RippleNet and eliminate the need for nostro accounts between institutions. Rather than holding foreign currency at other institutions in order to facilitate cross-border payments, they can simply use XRP as an intermediary asset. Liquidity providers will provide the XRP trading pairs necessary to settle the funds on either end of the transaction. The information below describes how XRP works as a cryptocurrency.

<b>Wallets</b> are comprised of a public address and private key. They are cryptographically generated in the same way as bitcoin wallets, except with a different encoding scheme. An XRP wallet is validated by depositing an amount of 20XRP as reserve. This reserve amount may be adjusted through consensus but cannot be withdrawn. This reserve requirement also acts as an anti-spam measure to protect the network from malicious attacks. Wallets may hold XRP tokens or alternative debts that represent assets outside the XRP ledger. Trust limits may be established between wallets to control how much alternative debts may be owed from certain wallets.

<b>Gateways</b> issues assets on the RTXP, essentially allowing users to put in and take out assets from the network. Common gateways include exchanges and banks. This means users can approach a gateway to deposit or withdraw money and have this recorded cryptographically in the XRP ledger. This depends on the trust between the user and the gateway. The user trusts that the gateway will honour their deposit and be able to redeem their money later. This allows various assets to transact with each other in a highly liquid environment, which is all recorded on the same XRP ledger.

<b>Transactions</b> transfer assets between wallets, whether it is denominated in XRP tokens or another debt obligation. The data contained in a transaction helps verify the assets. A transaction's input data verifies that the assets are available to be spent by referencing the output data of a previous transaction. The input data is basically saying, 'this is where the assets came from and is available to be spent'. Input data also includes a signature from the wallet holder to verify that the user has access to the assets. The output data takes the verified amount and sends it to a new wallet address. A small amount of XRP measured in drops is destroyed by a transaction cost as an anti-spam measure to protect the network. This cost can be adjusted by validators through consensus.

<b>Validators</b> run the Ripple Server software, acting as network nodes by receiving transactions and proposing a block of valid transactions to the network. Validators rely on their own 'Unique Node List', which is composed of other nodes they trust to compare and update valid transactions in their proposed block. This process is called a consensus round and is repeated until a super-majority agreement of valid transactions is achieved throughout the network. The distributed ledger is then updated by adding all the new valid transactions in the proposed block.
