---
layout: post
permalink: /nano
title:  "Nano"
date:   2018-02-14 00:00:00 +0000
categories: coinblog
image: xrb
desc: A fee-less distributed cryptocurrency network. Free, instant, and unlimited transactions. (XRB).
---
Website: <a href="https://nano.org">https://nano.org</a><br>
Whitepaper: <a href="https://nano.org/en/whitepaper">https://nano.org/en/whitepaper</a>

<h2>Mission</h2>
To create a zero-fee, instant network for peer-to-peer transactions that is infinitely scalable.

<h2>Overview</h2>
Genesis block: December 2014<br>
Block explorer: <a href="https://www.nanode.co/">https://www.nanode.co/</a><br>
Supply limit: 133,248,290 XRB<br>
Issuance: Captcha faucet<br>
Block confirmation: Delegated Proof-of-Stake<br>

<h2>Summary</h2>

Nano was originally called Raiblocks and all XRB tokens were created at once from the genesis block. The tokens were then distributed via a captcha-based faucet system. Anyone could solve captchas and receive XRB tokens in return. This distribution ended in October of 2017 and no more XRB tokens will be created. In January of 2018, Raiblocks rebranded as Nano to appeal to the masses by adopting a more mainstream and generic brand identity. It's technical aspects remain unchanged. Nano still combines a delegated proof-of-stake consensus protocol with a block-lattice (as opposed to a blockchain) to achieve free and instant transactions. The ultimate goal of Nano is to do one job, provide infinitely scalable, free and instant transactions.

<b>Accounts</b> are wallets with a public address and private key, just like any other cryptocurrency. However, accounts on the Nano network all maintain their own separate blockchains that can only be updated by the account's owner. This allows transactions on the Nano network to be immediate. Accounts also record balances instead of maintaining an entire transaction history. This improves the network's speed when downloading blocks. The sum of the balance contained in all accounts must never exceed the initial genesis balance.

<b>Transactions</b> on the Nano network must both be sent and received. The sender of the transaction will already have the transaction recorded in its own blockchain. This means funds are immediately deducted from the accounts balance. However, the funds will be pending until the transaction is received and the funds are added to their account balance. Therefore, a transaction can have two states, settled and unsettled. Allowing account holders to receive funds and update their own account balances removes the need to wait for confirmations from the network. Transactions are settled and confirmed by the account holder.

<b>Block-lattice</b> is the structure of the Nano network's distributed ledger. Each 'send' transaction on an individual account's blockchain is connected to a 'receive' transaction on another account's blockchain. This means blocks in individual account blockchains are connected to create a block-lattice that comprises the entire Nano ledger.

<b>Nodes</b> are computers that run the Nano protocol and participate by observing the transactions that occur between accounts and voting on conflicting transactions through a delegated proof-of-stake mechanism. Nodes gain voting power proportional to their balance of funds. Accounts can delegate their voting power to other nodes through a 'change' transaction. 